CODE FOR PORTLAND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Any member of Code for Portland who believes that he or she has a legitimate grievance may personally or by a representative, file a compliant with the Brigade Captain.  Any person who believes he or she has been adversely affected by an act or decision of Code for Portland has the right to process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedures.

STEP 1:  The aggrieved person should submit a written statement to the Code for Portland Brigade Captain detailing the nature of the complaint and facts upon which the allegation is based within forty five (45) days of the event. The Brigade Captain shall contact the complainant no later than fifteen (15) days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the objective of resolving the matter informally.  However, in no case shall the informal meeting be conducted more than forty-five (45) days after receiving the written complaint.

STEP 2: When a grievance is filed, the Brigade Captain shall appoint, ad hoc, a three person Grievance Committee. The Grievance Committee shall meet within 14 days of its appointment. If the Committee determines the grievance is defective in form for failure to
state a grievance, the Committee may recommend that the Brigade Captain dismiss the grievance, and shall notify the grievant of its recommendation. If the Committee determines the grievance is in valid form, it shall promptly hold a hearing giving the grievant and others who wish to comment an opportunity to be heard.
The committee shall forward its recommendations to the Brigade Captain. Within 60
days of receipt of a grievance, the Brigade Captain shall render a final decision. Both
the Committee and the Brigade Captain may deliberate and decide on the grievance
in executive session.

STEP 3:  In discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate any person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and participate in the discussion, except if the complainant is represented by legal counsel the Brigade Captain shall be informed five (5) days in advance.  If the Brigade Captain is not informed five (5) days in advance of legal representation, Code for Portland has the right to postpone the hearing for an additional five days. The Grievance Committee shall require the Brigade Captain to participate in the discussion of the grievance when it is brought before the Grievance Committee.  The Grievance Committee shall issue a written decision on the matter within fifteen (15) days, and the decision of the Grievance Committee shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local level.

There shall be a written documentary prepared of the discussion and decision of the Grievance Committee.

For legal complaints, the client may choose to appeal further to the Oregon Human Rights Commission.



